W-14831431-fix-broken-kt (#1213)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/pages/manage-backup-restore.adoc

--
Do not use the back up and restore process to create concurrent running instances of Runtime Fabric. In other words, do not back up Runtime Fabric A, use that back up to create a new Runtime Fabric B while Runtime Fabric A is still active, and attempt to run them concurrently. This creates application deployment issues.
--

== What Gets Backed Up

> The Runtime Fabric back up process affects only the Runtime Fabric cluster. The back up process does not back up data from the control plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Runtime Fabric backup process affects only the Runtime Fabric cluster. The backup process does not back up data from the control plane.
```

** Application properties configured in Runtime Manager
* Data from other Mulesoft configurations, including:
** Object Store
** Edge
** Anypoint Monitoring and external logforwarders

== What Does Not Get Backed Up

* Data about application state
* Data from Ops Center
* Data from the control plane

=== Changes Made After Performing a Backup Are Not Restored

Any changes you make after you perform a backup will not be present if you restore the cluster from that backup. For example, if you perform a backup, delete an application, and then restore from that backup, the application you deleted will be recreated in the cluster, but it will be marked as deleted in Runtime Manager. As a result the application's status will show as *applying* in Runtime Manager.

Runtime Fabric does not restore the following control plane changes if you make them after you take a backup:

* Created apps
* Delete apps
* Updated app configurations
* Agent upgrades

You need to manually resolve such inconsistencies by reapplying the changes you made after performing the backup, as these changes can't be reapplied from the control plane.

== Create a Backup

> Before performing a back up:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before performing a backup:
```

* Verify that Runtime Fabric is installed and running successfully.
* Verify that `rtfctl` command-line tool is upgraded to version 0.3.102 or later. Verify the version by running `rtfctl version` on any Runtime Fabric node.

[WARNING]
====

> * Performing a back up per node, such as via a VM snapshot, is not supported. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Performing a backup per node, such as via a VM snapshot, is not supported. 
```

* For Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes, confirm that the `rtfctl` binary is present in the current directory and `kubectl` is present in the user `$PATH`. Additionally, confirm that you've set the Kubernetes (`kubectl`) context to the intended backup cluster. 

== Perform a Restore

[IMPORTANT]
--
Before you restore a cluster, review the following information:

* You must perform the restore on the same Runtime Fabric cluster that is listed in Runtime Manager (the same cluster in the control plane).

> * Configuration changes you make to deployed applications and management services after a back up are not restored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configuration changes you make to deployed applications and management services after a backup are not restored.
```
